# Vue Forms kit

A set of primitives to build your own forms and inputs with low effort.

## Architecture

Unlike many other libraries, this one does not provide you ready-to-use components.
Instead, it gives you multiple building bricks to create your own form and inputs
that match your design system without too much boilerplate code.

The idea is to use renderless components which encapsulate common properties and methods, and expose them for your form input components.
You, as the developer, have only to worry about styling and customizing the form inputs leaving the job to the library.

For example, the simplest usage may look like this:

```html
<script>
    // EmailInput.vue
    import { InputController } from 'vue-forms-kit';
    export default {
        components: { InputController },
    };
</script>
<template>
    <input-controller v-on="$listeners" v-slot="{onInput}">
        <input type="email" v-bind="$attrs" @input="onInput" />
    </input-controller>
</template>
```

## Base primitives

Here the list of base primitives that library operates with.

### InputController

This component wraps an input (either standard HTMLElement or any other custom component)
and exposes basic API to interact with it.

```html
<script>
    // EmailInput.vue
    import { InputController } from 'vue-forms-kit';
    export default {
        components: { InputController },
    };
</script>
<template>
    <input-controller v-on="$listeners" v-slot="{onInput}">
        <input name="email" type="email" v-bind="$attrs" @input="onInput" />
    </input-controller>
</template>
```

Note, it is strictly recommended to define "name" attribute when using components built with this library.
The "name" attribute later used to property set validation errors.
If you omit "name" then a default name will be generated and you will not have access to validation errors for such inputs.
The usage of the `EmailInput` component we defined may be like this:

```html
<email-input name="email" />
```

`v-model` omitted for this demo.

Please note, that we used `v-on="$listeners"` on `input-controller` tag because we want all listeners from the outer scope
to be directly passed to `input-controller` components. Otherwise your `v-model` would not work.
Of course, you can have your own event handlers if you wish:

```html
<script>
    // EmailInput.vue
    import { InputController } from 'vue-forms-kit';
    export default {
        components: { InputController },
        methods: {
            onComponentInput(value) {
                this.$emit('input', value);
            },
        },
    };
</script>
<template>
    <input-controller @input="onComponentInput" v-slot="{onInput}">
        <input name="email" type="email" v-bind="$attrs" @input="onInput" />
    </input-controller>
</template>
```

For the same purpose we passed `v-bind="$attrs"` to the `input` tag. This is just to avoid explicitly setting up attributes.
Both `$listeners` and `$attrs` are optional and referenced here as an example. You have full control over your code.

### Props

By default, `InputController` will use `this.$el` as a input tag. Sometimes it is not enough and you have another HTML element
to use as the input. In this case your can specify `input-selector` property to hint the desired element.
`input-selector` accept any CSS select that is also valid for `querySelector` native method.

```html
<input-controller input-selector="#iput">
    <div>
        <input id="input" />
    </div>
</input-controller>
```

### Default slot exposes:

-   `inputId`, `inputName` - a value of element's "id" or "name" attribute. Autogenerated when missing.
-   `onInput`, `onChange`, `onFocus`, `onBlur`- default handlers for common events.

Usage:

```html
<input-controller
    v-slot="{inputId, inputName, onInput, onChange, onFocus, onBlur}"
/>
```

## Styling

## Form Validation

## Submit handlers

## Displaying errors

## Setting form group errors

## Custom errors, labels and help messages.

## Built-in fields

## Building custom elements

```

```
